Describe layout export options and screenshots update (#4483)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/user_manual/print_composer/create_output.rst

Export as Image
===============

> To export a layout to image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export a layout as an image:
```

#. Click the |saveMapAsImage| :sup:`Export as image` icon

> #. Select the image format, the folder and filename to use; if the layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the image format, the folder and filename to use. If the layout
```

   contains more than one page, each page will be exported to a file with the

>    given filename appended with the page number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   given filename with the page number appended.
```

#. In the next :guilabel:`Image Export Options` dialog:

   * You can override the print layout :guilabel:`Export resolution` and the
     exported page dimensions (as set in :guilabel:`Layout` panel).

>    * When needed, images rendering can also be improved with the :guilabel:`Enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Image rendering can also be improved with the :guilabel:`Enable
```

     antialiasing` option.

>    * If you need to export your layout as a **georeferenced image** (e.g., to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * If you want to export your layout as a **georeferenced image** (e.g., to
```

     share with other projects), check the |unchecked| :guilabel:`Generate

>      world file` option and a world file named like the page on which the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     world file` option and an *ESRI World File* with the same name as the page on which the
```

>      :ref:`reference map <reference_map>` set in :guilabel:`Layout` panel is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     :ref:`reference map <reference_map>` set in the :guilabel:`Layout` panel is
```

     placed will be created along with the export(s).
     This option can also be checked by default in the :ref:`layout panel
     <layout_panel>`.

   .. index:: Crop layout to content
   .. _crop_to_content:

   * By checking |checkbox| :guilabel:`Crop to content` option, the image output
     by the layout will include the minimal area enclosing all the items (map,
     legend, scale bar, shapes, label, image...) of each page of the composition:

     * If the composition includes a single page, then the output is resized to
       include EVERYTHING on the composition. The page can then be reduced or
       extended to all items depending on their position (on, above, below, left or
       right of the page).
     * In case of a multi-page layout, each page will be resized to include items in
       its area (left and right sides for all pages, plus top for the first page and
       bottom for the last page). Each resized page is exported to a separate file.

>      The :guilabel:`Crop to content` dialog also allows to add some margins around

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The :guilabel:`Crop to content` dialog also lets you add margins around
```

   layout default :ref:`export settings <layout_export_settings>` or configure
   new ones:

   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Export map layers as SVG groups`: exported items are
     grouped within layers whose name matches the layer names from QGIS, making
     it much easier to understand the contents of the document.
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Always export as vectors`: some rendering options
     require items to be rasterized for a better rendering. Check this option to
     keep the objects as vectors with the risk that the appearance of the output
     file may not match the print layout preview (for more details, see
     :ref:`layout_export_settings`).
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Export RDF metadata` of the document such as the
     title, author, date, description...
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Simplify geometries to reduce output file size`
     This avoids exporting ALL geometry vertices, which can result in a ridiculously
     complex and large export file size or fail to load in other applications.
     Geometries will be simplified while exporting the layout in order to remove
     any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export resolution

>      (e.g. if export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices less than ``1/600 inch`` different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     (e.g. if the export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices that are less than ``1/600 inch``
```

>      from each other will be removed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     apart will be removed).
```

 Use transparency-compatible formats like :file:`.TIFF` or :file:`.PNG` in such
 a case.

.. note:: When supported by the format (eg, :file:`PNG` does) and the
 underlying Qt library, the exported image may include :ref:`project metadata
 <project_metadata>` (author, title, date, description...)

.. _export_layout_svg:

Export as SVG
=============

To export a layout as SVG:

#. Click the |saveAsSVG| :sup:`Export as SVG` icon

> #. You also need to fill the path and filename (used as a basename for all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Fill in the path and filename (used as a base name for all the
```

   files in case of multi-page composition)
#. In the next :guilabel:`SVG Export Options` dialog, you can override the
   layout default :ref:`export settings <layout_export_settings>` or configure
   new ones:

   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Export map layers as SVG groups`: exported items are
     grouped within layers whose name matches the layer names from QGIS, making
     it much easier to understand the contents of the document.
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Always export as vectors`: some rendering options
     require items to be rasterized for a better rendering. Check this option to
     keep the objects as vectors with the risk that the appearance of the output
     file may not match the print layout preview (for more details, see
     :ref:`layout_export_settings`).
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Export RDF metadata` of the document such as the
     title, author, date, description...
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Simplify geometries to reduce output file size`
     This avoids exporting ALL geometry vertices, which can result in a ridiculously

>      complex and large export file size or fail to load in other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     complex and large export file size.
```

Author: I feel this is a real issue worth mentioning.

Reviewer: The title says that the purpose of the simplification is to reduce the file output size. Are there other reasons than size (and that the simplification solves) that might cause failure to load in other applications?

Author: Yes there could be other reasons.
The point here is to explain to user that the size is an issue and would no longer be if they tick that box. Reducing the size is not only for the disk storage: it will also fix potential loading in other apps. How about:
```suggestion
     complex and large export file size that could fail to load in other applications.
```

Reviewer: I have updated the suggestion.

Author: Sorry but I prefer my suggestion and committed it. I'll merge when travis is ready: this is more a matter of syntax preference than an issue in docs, so not worth we spend more time on it imho.

Reviewer: No problem.

     Geometries will be simplified while exporting the layout in order to remove

>      any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export DPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export resolution
```

>      (e.g. if export DPI is 300 dpi, vertices less than 1/600 inch different

Author: ```suggestion
     (e.g. if export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices less than ``1/600 inch`` different
```

     from each other will be removed).
   * Set the :guilabel:`Text export`: controls whether text labels are exported

>      as either proper text objects (:guilabel:`Always export texts as text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     as proper text objects (:guilabel:`Always export texts as text
```

     objects`) or as paths only (:guilabel:`Always export texts as paths`).

>      If they are exported as text objects then they can be edited in external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     If they are exported as text objects, they can be edited in external
```

     applications (e.g. Inkscape) as normal text. BUT the side effect is that

>      the rendering quality is decreased, AND there’s issues with rendering when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     the rendering quality is reduced, AND there are issues with rendering when
```

     certain text settings like buffers are in place. That’s why exporting as
     paths is recommended.

>    * |checkbox|:guilabel:`Render map labels as outlines`: unchecking this will

Author: ```suggestion
```

>      allow you to edit labels as texts in vector illustration software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     allow you to edit labels as text in vector illustration software.
```

>      allow you to edit labels as texts in vector illustration software.

Author: ```suggestion
```

   * Apply |checkbox| :guilabel:`Crop to content` :ref:`option <crop_to_content>`
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Disable tiled raster layer exports`: When exporting

>      files, QGIS uses a built-in raster layer tiled rendering that saves memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     files, QGIS uses a built-in raster layer tiled rendering that saves memory.
```

>      usage. Sometimes, this can however cause visible "seams" in the rasters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Sometimes, this can cause visible "seams" in the rasters
```

     for generated files. Checking this option would fix that, at the cost of a

>      high memory usage during exports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     higher memory usage during exports.
```

     If they are exported as text objects then they can be edited in external
     applications (e.g. Inkscape) as normal text. BUT the side effect is that
     the rendering quality is decreased, AND there’s issues with rendering when
     certain text settings like buffers are in place. That’s why exporting as
     paths is recommended.
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Create Geospatial PDF (GeoPDF)`
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Disable tiled raster layer exports`: When exporting
     files, QGIS uses a built-in raster layer tiled rendering that saves memory.
     Sometimes, this can cause visible "seams" in the rasters
     for generated files. Checking this option would fix that, at the cost of a
     higher memory usage during exports.
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Simplify geometries to reduce output file size`
     This avoids exporting ALL geometry vertices, which can result in a ridiculously
     complex and large export file size or fail to load in other applications.
     Geometries will be simplified while exporting the layout in order to remove
     any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export resolution

>      (e.g. if export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices less than ``1/600 inch`` different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     (e.g. if export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices that are less than ``1/600 inch`` apart
```

>      from each other will be removed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     will be removed).
```

Export as PDF
=============

To export a layout as PDF:

#. Click the |saveAsPDF| :sup:`Export as PDF` icon

> #. You also need to fill the path and filename: unlike the other tools, all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Fill in the path and filename: unlike the other tools, all the
```

   pages in the layout are exported to a single PDF file.
#. In the next :guilabel:`PDF Export Options` dialog, you can override the
   layout default :ref:`export settings <layout_export_settings>` or configure
   new ones:

   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Always export as vectors`: some rendering options
     require items to be rasterized for a better rendering. Check this option to
     keep the objects as vectors with the risk that the appearance of the output
     file may not match the print layout preview (for more details, see
     :ref:`layout_export_settings`).
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Append georeference information`
   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Export RDF metadata` of the document such as the
     title, author, date, description...
   * Set the :guilabel:`Text export`: controls whether text labels are exported

>      as either proper text objects (:guilabel:`Always export texts as text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     as proper text objects (:guilabel:`Always export texts as text
```

     objects`) or as paths only (:guilabel:`Always export texts as paths`).
     If they are exported as text objects then they can be edited in external
     applications (e.g. Inkscape) as normal text. BUT the side effect is that
     the rendering quality is decreased, AND there’s issues with rendering when
     certain text settings like buffers are in place. That’s why exporting as
     paths is recommended.
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Create Geospatial PDF (GeoPDF)`
   * |unchecked| :guilabel:`Disable tiled raster layer exports`: When exporting

>      files, QGIS uses a built-in raster layer tiled rendering that saves memory

Author: ```suggestion
     files, QGIS uses a built-in raster layer tiled rendering that saves memory.
```

>      usage. Sometimes, this can however cause visible "seams" in the rasters

Author: ```suggestion
     Sometimes, this can cause visible "seams" in the rasters
```

     for generated files. Checking this option would fix that, at the cost of a

>      high memory usage during exports.

Author: ```suggestion
     higher memory usage during exports.
```

   * |checkbox| :guilabel:`Simplify geometries to reduce output file size`
     This avoids exporting ALL geometry vertices, which can result in a ridiculously

>      complex and large export file size or fail to load in other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     complex and large export file size.
```

     Geometries will be simplified while exporting the layout in order to remove

>      any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export DPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     any redundant vertices which are not discernably different at the export resolution
```

>      (e.g. if export DPI is 300 dpi, vertices less than 1/600 inch different

Author: ```suggestion
     (e.g. if export resolution is ``300 dpi``, vertices less than ``1/600 inch`` different
```
